# PERCEPTION ANALYSIS OF INDONESIAN CITIZENS TOWARDS COVID-19 VACCINE WITH TEXT MINING METHOD ON TWEETS
Sentiment Analysis and Topic Modelling with LDA


Indonesia is the country with the highest number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in Southeast Asia. The mandatory COVID-19 vaccination regulation is a government strategy to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia. However, not all people are willing to be vaccinated. By using tweets data about the COVID-19 vaccine on Twitter and text mining methods, **the author conducted sentiment analysis and topic modeling to understand public perceptions towards the COVID-19 vaccine**. The data used are Indonesian tweets in May and June 2021. Sentiment analysis used Support Vector Machine (SVM) model, and topic modeling used Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model. The sentiment labeling for the training data will be done manually by the author and the lexicon method. Tweets will be classified into positive, neutral, and negative sentiment. Experiments were carried out on the SVM model by differentiating the sentiment labeling on training data and test data, namely manual and lexicon labeling. The results of the sentiment analysis showed that labeling sentiments with lexicon is not suitable approach for preparing training data. Furthermore, the sentiment prediction from SVM model showed that most tweets about the COVID-19 vaccine have neutral sentiment. The results of the topic modeling showed that the public discussed about the use permit of vaccines, hoaxes about vaccines, clinical trials, vaccination information, and the effects of COVID-19 vaccines.
